Instructions for the submission of the solution
The candidate has to submit two files: (i) one file containing the ontology in Turtle format, with extension
.ttl or .owl; (ii) one file in PDF format, containing the answers to each question starting from Q8. The solution must be submitted via the Moodle of the course no later than the 11th of July at 8 PM Italian time. Any file received after that time will not be considered valid for the exam.
Exercise
The fundamental concepts in an application domain related to movies are: movie, director, release date, and cinema. In this domain, a movie is considered as the conceptual and artistic outcome of a creative process (and not a physical object). Some of the facts that characterize this domain can be stated as follows:
1. Each movie has exactly one title (a string) and one director.
2. A movie is identified by an ISAN (a string).
3. The movie belongs to at least one genre.
4. A movie has a release date.
5. A movie is screened in exactly one cinema. The cinema can be public or private. The cinema is located in exactly one place.
6. A movie is included in at least one film festival.
7. The film festival has a name (a string) and is located in exactly one place.
8. A film festival is organized by exactly one organization. The organization is identified by a name (a string) and a VAT (a positive integer).
9. The organization has an agreement with the cinema in which the movie is screened.
10. An organization organizes more than one film festival.
11. A film festival has a budget (a positive integer).
12. The organization collaborates with more than one distributor.
13. Movie, film festival, director, cinema, place, genre, organization, and distributor are pairwise disjoint concepts.
The candidate should express all the above statements in an OWL 2 DL ontology, using the RDF Turtle notation. In particular, the ontology must:
Q1. Declare the required classes, providing for each class a textual label and a concise textual description of the intension of the class, using the appropriate annotation properties from the RDF Schema vocabulary.
Q2. Provide the sub-class axioms defining the class taxonomy.
Q3. Declare the required object properties, providing for each property:
Q.1. a textual label, using the appropriate annotation property from the RDFS vocabulary
Q3.2. a textual description of the intension of the property, using the appropriate annotation property from the RDFS vocabulary
Q3.3. one axiom defining the domain of the property Q3.4. one axiom defining the range of the property Q3.5. one axiom defining the inverse of the property
Q3.6. any additional axioms expressing disjointness of the property with other object properties, and the property characteristics.
Q4. Provide the sub-property axioms defining the object property taxonomy.
Q5. Declare the required data properties, providing:
Q5.1. a textual label, using the appropriate annotation property from the RDFS vocabulary
Q5.2. a textual description of the intension of the property, using the appropriate annotation property from the RDFS vocabulary
Q5.3. one axiom defining the domain of the property Q5.4. one axiom defining the range of the property
Q5.5. any additional axioms expressing disjointness of the property with other data properties, and whether the property is functional.
Q6. Define the axioms necessary for expressing any statement in 1 to 13 that has not already been expressed.
Q7. Populate the ontology with at least one individual for each class, and at least one assertion for each property.
In addition, the candidate must:
Q8. Identify two different assertions that would make the ontology inconsistent.
Q9. Define the complex role inclusion axiom capturing the fact that if an organization organizes a film festival that includes a movie that is screened in a cinema, then the organization has an agreement with that cinema.
Q10. Verify if the created ontology (including the complex role inclusion axiom defined in Q9) satisfies the global restrictions on the axioms of an OWL 2 DL ontology.
Q11. Write the following queries in SPARQL:
Q11.1. Find the movies released between 2000 and 2010 and for each movie the cinema in which it is screened.
Q11.2. Among all film festivals ordered by name alphabetically, find the name of three film festivals starting from the second result.
Q11.3. For each film festival, find the movies that are included in it, the titles of these movies, and the name, unique ISAN, and the organization of the film festival.
Q11.4. Find the budget of each film festival calculating a discount of 20%.
Q11.5. Find the title and the director of each movie that is not classified as a specific genre (e.g., "Horror").
Q11.6. Retrieve the maximum budget of the film festivals grouped by organization