The “hole and tear” effect—whereby canine teeth anchor the person while other teeth bite, shear, and tear the tissues—results in stretch lacerations, easily piercing immature cranial bones. The biting force of canine jaws varies with the breed, from 310 kPa to nearly 31 790 kPa in specially trained attack dogs.w1 w2 Large wounds, significant devitalisation, and high mortality can result, with the highest mortality in neonates (six times that in toddlers), who are usually bitten by household pets.This review is aimed at clinicians who deal with dog bites. The basic principles of wound management and indications for use of antimicrobials and rabies prophylaxis apply to clinicians in all countries, but the primary focus of this article will be the UK.

Overall, the clinical approach in the UK to management of dog bites is pragmatic and based largely on consensus opinion rather than firm evidence. The major basis for recommending co-amoxiclav is in-vitro sensitivity data of organisms related to dog bites, and most authorities recommend using prophylactic antimicrobials in selected patients at high risk of infection.
We reviewed the Cochrane Library and performed Medline searches to identify relevant systematic reviews on the management of dog bites, using the keywords “dog-bites”, “reviews”, “prophylaxis”, and “treatment”. We consulted personal archives, Clinical Evidence, and UK national NHS (Prodigy) guidelines.
Of the estimated 740 people per 100 000 population bitten by dogs annually,4 a minority seek medical attention. Overall, 2.6/100 000 population need hospital admission. Half of all children are reportedly bitten by dogs at some time, boys more than girls. A recent telephone survey of 1184 families found that the annual incidence of bites in children aged under 15 years was 22/1000.5

Accurate mortality figures are poorly documented in the medical literature and difficult to obtain. However, because deaths are newsworthy, the popular press reports are probably reliable indicators of the true number in the UK, and during the past five years, two to three cases a year have made headlines. In the United States annual mortality is 7.1/100 million population, with 57% of deaths occurring in children aged under 10 years.