Cryptography is essential for the security of online communication, cars and implanted medical devices. However, many commonly used cryptosystems will be completely broken once large quantum computers exist. Post-quantum cryptography is cryptography under the assumption that the attacker has a large quantum computer; post-quantum cryptosystems strive to remain secure even in this scenario. This relatively young research area has seen some successes in identifying mathematical operations for which quantum algorithms offer little advantage in speed, and then building cryptographic systems around those. The central challenge in post-quantum cryptography is to meet demands for cryptographic usability and flexibility without sacrificing confidence.
Quantum cryptography is a new method for secret communications offering the ultimate security assurance of the inviolability of a law of nature. In this paper we shall describe the theory of quantum cryptography, its potential relevance and the development of a prototype system at Los Alamos, which utilizes the phenomenon of single-photon interference to perform quantum cryptography over an optical fibre communications link.
Quantum cryptography exploits principles of quantum physics for the secure processing of information. A prominent example is secure communication, i.e., the task of transmitting confidential messages from one location to another. The cryptographic requirement here is that the transmitted messages remain inaccessible to anyone other than the designated recipients, even if the communication channel is untrustworthy. In classical cryptography, this can usually be guaranteed only under computational hardness assumptions, such as when factoring large integers is infeasible. In contrast, the security of quantum cryptography relies entirely on the laws of quantum mechanics. Here this physical notion of security is reviewed, with a focus on quantum key distribution and secure communication.
We provide limits to practical quantum key distribution, taking into account channel losses, a realistic detection process, and imperfections in the “qubits” sent from the sender to the receiver. As we show, even quantum key distribution with perfect qubits might not be achievable over long distances when the other imperfections are taken into account. Furthermore, existing experimental schemes (based on weak pulses) currently do not offer unconditional security for the reported distances and signal strength. Finally we show that parametric down-conversion offers enhanced performance compared to its weak coherent pulse counterpart.
We produce two identical keys using, for the first time, entangled trinary quantum systems (qutrits) for quantum key distribution. The advantage of qutrits over the normally used binary quantum systems is an increased coding density and a higher security margin. The qutrits are encoded into the orbital angular momentum of photons, namely Laguerre–Gaussian modes with azimuthal index l + 1, 0 and −1, respectively. The orbital angular momentum is controlled with phase holograms. In an Ekert-type protocol the violation of a three-dimensional Bell inequality verifies the security of the generated keys. A key is obtained with a qutrit error rate of approximately 10%.
Basic techniques to prove the unconditional security of quantum crypto graphy are described. They are applied to a quantum key distribution protocol proposed by Bennett and Brassard. The proof considers a practical variation on the protocol in which the channel is noisy and photos may be lost during the transmission. Each individual signal sent into the channel must contain a single photon or any two-dimensional system in the exact state described in the protocol. No restriction is imposed on the detector used at the receiving side of the channel, except that whether or not the received system is detected must be independent of the basis used to measure this system.
Quantum techniques for key distribution—the classically impossible task of distributing secret information over an insecure channel whose transmissions are subject to inspection by an eavesdropper, between parties who share no secret initially—have been proposed using (a) four nonorthogonally polarized single-photon states or low-intensity light pulses, and (b) polarization-entangled or spacetime-entangled two-photon states. Here we show that in principle any two nonorthogonal quantum states suffice, and describe a practical interferometric realization using low-intensity coherent light pulses.
We present strong attacks against quantum key distribution schemes which use quantum memories and quantum gates to attack directly the final key. We analyze a specific attack of this type, for which we find the density matrices available to the eavesdropper and the optimal information which can be extracted from them. We prove security against this attack and discuss security against any attack allowed by the rules of quantum mechanics.
The fates of SIGACT News and Quantum Cryptography are inseparably entangled. The exact date of Stephen Wiesner's invention of "conjugate coding" is unknown but it cannot be far from April 1969, when the premier issue of SIGACT News---or rather SICACT News as it was known at the time---came out. Much later, it was in SIGACT News that Wiesner's paper finally appeared in the wake of the first author's early collaboration with Charles H. Bennett. It was also in SIGACT News that the original experimental demonstration for quantum key distribution was announced for the first time and that a thorough bibliography was published. Finally, it was in SIGACT News that Doug Wiedemann chose to publish his discovery when he reinvented quantum key distribution in 1987, unaware of all previous work but Wiesner's. Most of the first decade of the history of quantum cryptography consisted of this lone unpublished paper by Wiesner. Fortunately, Bennett was among the few initiates who knew of Wiesner's ideas directly from the horse's mouth. His meeting with the first author of this column in 1979 was the beginning of a most fruitful lifelong collaboration. It took us five more years to invent quantum key distribution, which is still today the best-known application of quantum mechanics to cryptography. The second author joined in slightly later, followed by a few others. But until the early 1990's, no more than a handful of people were involved in quantum cryptographic research. Since then, the field has taken off with a vengeance, starting with Artur K. Ekert's proposal to use quantum nonlocality for cryptographic purposes. The golden age started in earnest when Ekert organized the first international workshop on quantum cryptography in Broadway, England, in 1993. Since then, many conferences have been devoted at least partly to quantum cryptography, which has become a major international topic. The purpose of the aforementioned 1993 bibliography in SIGACT News was to cite as much as possible all papers ever written on the subject, including unpublished manuscripts: there were 57 entries in total. Today, such an undertaking would be nearly impossible owing to the explosion of new research in the field.The purpose of this column is to give an overview of the current research in quantum cryptography. It is not our intention to be exhaustive and we apologize in advance to any researcher whose work we may have omitted. Note that we do not necessarily agree with the claims in every paper mentioned here: this column should not be construed as a seal of approval!
We show that although unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is impossible, it can be based upon any family of quantum one-way permutations. The resulting scheme is unconditionally concealing and computationally binding. Unlike the classical reduction of Naor, Ostrovski, Ventkatesen and Young, our protocol is non-interactive and has communication complexity O(n) qubits for n a security parameter.
Practical application of the generalized Bell's theorem in the so-called key distribution process in cryptography is reported. The proposed scheme is based on the Bohm's version of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen gedanken experiment and Bell's theorem is used to test for eavesdropping.
Quantum key distribution is widely thought to offer unconditional security in communication between two users. Unfortunately, a widely accepted proof of its security in the presence of source, device, and channel noises has been missing. This long-standing problem is solved here by showing that, given fault-tolerant quantum computers, quantum key distribution over an arbitrarily long distance of a realistic noisy channel can be made unconditionally secure. The proof is reduced from a noisy quantum scheme to a noiseless quantum scheme and then from a noiseless quantum scheme to a noiseless classical scheme, which can then be tackled by classical probability theory.
The claim of quantum cryptography has always been that it can provide protocols that are unconditionally secure, that is, for which the security does not depend on any restriction on the time, space, or technology available to the cheaters. We show that this claim does not hold for any quantum bit commitment protocol. Since many cryptographic tasks use bit commitment as a basic primitive, this result implies a severe setback for quantum cryptography. The model used encompasses all reasonable implementations of quantum bit commitment protocols in which the participants have not met before, including those that make use of the theory of special relativity.
We prove that the 1984 protocol of Bennett and Brassard (BB84) for quantum key distribution is secure. We first give a key distribution protocol based on entanglement purification, which can be proven secure using methods from Lo and Chau's proof of security for a similar protocol. We then show that the security of this protocol implies the security of BB84. The entanglement purification based protocol uses Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes, and properties of these codes are used to remove the use of quantum computation from the Lo-Chau protocol.
Internet has become a global means of communication, turned our reality upside down. It has transformed communications, to the level that it is now our chosen standard of communication. Although there are many ways to protect information from undesired access, Quantum cryptography can be used to unconditionally secure data communications by applying the laws of quantum physics which overcomes the drawbacks of traditional classical cryptography, which depends on mathematical methods to limit attacks such as eavesdroppers. Quantum cryptography is considered to be a future replica of classical cryptography. In this survey paper, we will discuss about various protocols of cryptography. Also discussing about their vulnerabilities.
Based on Mathematical techniques and the unproven computational rules, this traditional cryptography is applied to send secret messages and the main problem in this traditional cryptography is the key distribution. Cryptography is classified as two types based on their requirement and applications. They are Symmetric Key Cryptosystem (Traditional Cryptography) and Asymmetric Key Cryptosystem. The Symmetric Cryptography has the same key at both the sides for encryption and decryption of the communications.
Quantum systems designed in such a way that it uses quantum mechanics and depends greatly on the classical physics. This proves that these quantum systems are classical in nature as well. It depend on the Heisenberg principle of uncertainty and polarization of photons. The basic concept is that it is difficult to calculate the quantum states of any system such as energy, momentum of the particles without disturbing that system. The main aim of QKD is to create a key that is used in encryption system to transfer data with light weight photons through either fiber optics or free space.
Even in a secure network there is no security assured. In theory of ordinary scale bodies permits the physical factors to be measured without disturbing those properties, hence leading to the passive attacks which are highly observed in traditional system, sender and receiver are not aware of eavesdropping which taken place and this situation does not happen in quantum theory.
When sender Alice A wants to send the key generated by the light particles of polarized photons to Bob B. receiver. She transfer each particular photon bit in an arbitrary way by selecting the two arbitrary basis of polarized Photons either rectilinear or diagonal. Receiver Bob B may chose randomly the rectilinear or diagonal polarizer to calculate the photons received and informs the result to sender through any insecure channel. After comparing the received bits from the receiver, finally they discard the incorrect bits and make the right one as key.
Classical cryptography is the process of hiding information and it manages the secret knowledge by encrypting the plain text message through the translation of it to an unintelligible message. Quantum cryptography is also hiding the plain text through encryption and it works based on the law of quantum physics for providing absolute security of data communication. It uses the idea of quantum mechanics to gadget a cryptographic system and the key problems are solved by intrusion detection including the Eavesdropping detection using quantum expertise. On the contrary, principles of secured communication protocol systems are demonstrated with classical quantum cryptography where the keys are distributed securely and are applied in quantum key distribution as well. In this paper, we provide a survey of works on classical cryptography and quantum cryptography and compare them with respect to time, security level and the classification of the data. Moreover, we perform a concise analysis of perspective classical cryptography and the conception of Quantum cryptography with various protocols and highlight the benefits of classical cryptography and Quantum cryptography in different applications. Finally, we provide a set of recommendations for selecting the suitable encryption model for securing the communication.
Every attempt to access to the Internet through a Web browser, email sent, VPN connection, VoIP call, instant message or other use of telecommunications systems involves cryptographic techniques. The most commonly applied technique is asymmetric cryptography, which is generally executed in the background without the user even being aware. It establishes a cryptographic code based on the computational complexity of mathematical problems. However, this type of cryptography, which is widely used in today's telecommunications systems, is under threat as electronics and computing rapidly develop. The development of fifth-generation cellular networks (5G) is gaining momentum, and given its wide field of application, security requires special attention. This is especially true faced with the development of quantum computers. One solution to this security challenge is to use more advanced techniques to establish cryptographic keys that are not susceptible to attack. An essential part of quantum cryptography, Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) uses the principles of quantum physics to establish and distribute symmetric cryptographic keys between two geographically distant users. QKD establishes information-theoretically secure cryptographic keys that are resistant to eavesdropping when they are created. In this paper, we survey the security challenges and approaches in 5G networks concerning network protocols, interfaces and management organizations. We begin by examining the fundamentals of QKD and discuss the creation of QKD networks and their applications. We then outline QKD network architecture and its components and standards, following with a summary of QKD and post-quantum key distribution techniques and approaches for its integration into existing security frameworks such as VPNs (IPsec and MACsec). We also discuss the requirements, architecture and methods for implementing the FPGA-based encryptors needed to execute cryptographic algorithms with security keys. We discuss the performance and technologies of post-quantum cryptography, and finally, examine reported 5G demonstrations which have used quantum technologies, highlighting future research directions.
Quantum cryptography is a field that employs principles of quantum physics to communicate via networks. It has developed as an ability to handle the growing risks to network security, including cyber-attacks and data breaches. This age offers superior and advanced security characteristics compared to traditional cryptographic systems, making it a highly promising choice for safeguarding sensitive data. Quantum cryptography provides secure communication channels that are resistant to eavesdropping and hacking. Quantum key distribution (QKD) algorithms are utilized to generate and distribute encryption keys by using the distinct properties of quantum particles. Intercepting the keys without altering their quantum state is exceedingly difficult, requiring precise manipulation. Quantum cryptography has a notable effect on community defense by effectively mitigating the threat posed by quantum computing. Due to the rise of quantum computing, conventional encryption methods are becoming more susceptible to attacks that could compromise the security of encryption keys.
The rapid growth of technology has significantly increased the demand for secure communication and data transfer over networks. Traditional encryption methods and mathematical algorithms have become vulnerable to cyberattacks, requiring the development of more secure and resistant systems. Quantum cryptography is applicable in this context. Quantum cryptography is a cutting-edge technology that utilizes the principles of quantum physics to guarantee secure communication and data transfer. This essay will analyze the impact of quantum cryptography on community safety by exploring its concepts, advantages, and potential challenges.  
Quantum cryptography operates based on the idea of quantum entanglement, a phenomenon where quantum particles are interconnected in such a way that the state of one particle influences the state of another, regardless of the distance separating them. This enables secure data transmission, as any attempt to intercept the information triggers a change in its state, alerting the sender and preventing data breaches. Quantum cryptography is highly resistant to decryption and offers a significant advantage in guaranteeing absolute confidentiality. Quantum technology serves as a means to exchange records, and the only way to intercept these records is by altering their state, establishing a reliable mode of communication. This feature makes it an exceptional alternative for safeguarding sensitive and confidential information, such as government and military communications, financial transactions, and personal records.  
Moreover, quantum cryptography provides a means for secure key distribution. The interception of keys in existing encryption algorithms poses a significant risk to network security. However, in the context of quantum key distribution, the process is inherently secure, as any effort to intercept the key results in a modification within the quantum state, rendering it impossible for the attacker to obtain the information. Another advantage of quantum cryptography is its ability to detect and thwart man-in-the-middle attacks. In such attacks, an assailant intercepts and manipulates communication between parties, deceiving them into believing they are communicating directly with each other. Quantum encryption renders this task unachievable, as any attempt to intercept the data causes a distinct state change, promptly notifying both the sender and recipient of the attack.  
Furthermore, quantum cryptography offers foolproof security. As technological advancements make existing encryption techniques increasingly vulnerable to decryption, quantum cryptography relies on fundamental laws of nature, making it impervious to current and future technologies. It ensures secure communication even as computational power advances.  
Nevertheless, quantum cryptography faces limitations and obstacles. A significant challenge is the high cost and complexity of the required apparatus. Utilizing quantum systems for data transfer necessitates specialized equipment, which can be expensive and less accessible, hindering widespread adoption for public security. Another limitation is the restricted transmission distance. Due to the fragile nature of quantum particles, their transmission range is limited, raising questions about the feasibility of quantum cryptography for long-distance communication.  
Ultimately, quantum cryptography has the potential to transform community security by providing a secure method for communication and data transfer. Its principles and advantages make it highly resistant to breaches, addressing the increasing risks of cyberattacks. However, its implementation may be impeded by the cost and complexity of the equipment and its limited transmission range. Through ongoing technological advancements, these challenges may be overcome, paving the way for quantum cryptography to become the forefront of network security.
Relying on quantum cryptography can lead to a deceptive sense of security, neglecting several crucial safety functions. The issue of scalability poses a substantial challenge to the effectiveness of quantum cryptography in enhancing community security. With the increasing number of devices and clients connected to networks, the volume of data exchanged grows exponentially. Traditional encryption methods can address this surge by employing greater computational power and increasing the size of encryption keys; however, quantum cryptography lacks this same level of adaptability. The limitations are closely tied to the diverse range of users and data transfer demands, making it challenging to scale to larger networks without compromising speed and efficiency.  
Additionally, the lack of standardization presents another significant hurdle. Unlike traditional encryption methods, quantum cryptography systems may not follow a fixed structure. This absence of standardization limits the ability of different systems to communicate with one another, thereby restricting interoperability. It also creates difficulties for organizations in selecting a specific system, as no streamlined method exists to ensure compliance. The lack of uniformity leads to compatibility challenges and could hinder the widespread adoption of quantum cryptography.  
Quantum cryptography also faces potential security risks that demand attention. Although the principles of quantum mechanics provide a sense of security, they are not entirely immune to exploitation. For instance, a hacker could intercept a quantum key during transmission, compromising the communication.  
Quantum cryptography is an emerging field that leverages the principles of quantum mechanics to create a more secure and advanced form of encryption. It offers a robust method for safeguarding networks, providing protection against quantum computer attacks capable of bypassing conventional encryption techniques. The exploration of quantum cryptography's impact on community safety is novel and holds the potential to revolutionize the cybersecurity sector while addressing the increasing threat posed by quantum computing to current security measures.  
The overall performance consists of three primary additives: the network, the quantum verbal exchange channel, and the cryptographic protocols. The community includes all the devices and systems connected through a network, with computer structures, servers, and routers. The quantum communication channel is answerable for transmitting the quantum states utilized .in QKD amongst nodes within the network. This channel is considered relaxed in competition to any eavesdropping tries due to the standards of quantum mechanics. The cryptographic protocols are liable for producing and dishing out the encryption keys via the quantum communique channel. Those protocols use the thoughts of quantum mechanics to protect the keys and shield them from being intercepted or changed through any unauthorized activities.
Unlike classical cryptography systems, which depend on mathematical algorithms and computational complexity to cozy facts, quantum cryptography is primarily based on the fundamental laws of physics, making it impossible to interrupt via mathematical evaluation. One of the critical components of quantum cryptography is the use of quantum key distribution (QKD), which permits two parties to talk comfortably.
The Internet of Things (IoT) depicts a giant network where every
“thing” can be interconnected through the communication
network. The communication can be initiated between peoplepeople, people-things, and things-things. Meanwhile, the fifth
generation (5G) mobile communicating systems are the
mainspring to power the IoT concept in the upcoming future.
However, the heterogeneous environment in 5G networks as well
as the high dependency on radio spectrum have raised deep
concerns about the security assurance against network attacks
such as eavesdropping. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end
security mechanism to ensure the multi-hop relay
communications in 5G based IoT networks to stay secured. We
design a scenario to explain the insecure multi-hop relay
communications which involves Base Station (BS), Subscriber
Station (SS) and Relay Station (RS). Next, we utilize Quantum
Cryptography between BS to RS and RS to RS as well as
adopting Elliptic Curve Cryptography between BS to SS or RS
to SS to mitigate the network against typical replay attacks. By
using the concept of integrating both cryptographic methods, the
secret key that yield from Quantum Cryptography will be used in
Elliptic Curve Cryptography to secure the transmission of
information across IoT networks. Thereupon, extensive
discussion has been carried out and it shows that the suggested
mechanism has potential to ensure confidentiality, integrity,
availability and non-repudiation in the proposed scenario. In the
final part of this paper, we conclude our study by a comparison
analysis between the two proposed cryptographic solutions. The
comparison analysis illustrates the performance of each proposed
strategy in terms of the achievable level of secrecy in IoT
networks.
In the near future, the advancement in IoT and 5G
technologies will bring a lot of significant changes to the
public. IoT, the global infrastructure for the information
society will enable a variety of objects to be recognizable
and integrated into the communication networks. With
such advanced objects being integrated into different
industries, the quality of human's daily lives as well as the
world's economy are believed will be boosted to a higher
level. Soon, the communication services will be highly
pervasive and distributed which in turn create a
decentralized pool of resources interconnected through a
dynamic network. Other than that, 5G technologies are
also one of the hot issues being discussed due to its
capability to create a seamless connection for massive
things at a faster speed. 5G technology is able to power a
huge number of connected devices that will reach out to
different locations via a wireless communicating network.
In short, it is a leading-edge technology which collects all
networks into one platform in order to offer ubiquitous
connectivity across the world.
Although the actualization of IoT is beneficial to
numerous fields such as industry, education, healthcare,
transportation and market, it brings up many issues related
to security. 
Resource allocation, setting up of call,
interference management, all are managed by the devices
themselves in an allocable fashion. Thus, control of the BS
is missing there.
Non-repudiation is a guarantee that prevents both
sender and receiver from denying the message that has
been sent. The sender cannot repudiate the arrived
message because it is signed.
Upon receiving the BS message, SS checks the
certificate of BS's public key for validity and uses BS's
public key to verify BS's signature. This certificate and
public key verification to ensure non-repudiation of data
between BS and SS. The sender cannot repudiate the
arrived message because it is signed.
Subsequently, it will be Section II which describes the
5G system model and formulates the optimization problem.
Whereas Section III and Section IV discuss about
Quantum Cryptography and Elliptic Curve Cryptography
respectively. For each technique, we will further discuss
how they can overcome the network attacks and how they
can ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
non-repudiation of information. Section V presents the
comparison analysis between the two proposed
cryptographic methods to evaluate secrecy performance of
both methods in the relay transmission. Finally, this paper
concludes in Section VI.
Elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) is plays a significant part in
modern cryptography due to the strong security mathematical
properties it has, and efficiency. However, the advent of quantum
computing has the potential to threaten the security of traditional
ECC-based cryptographic schemes, as Shor's algorithm is efficient
in solving the discrete logarithm problem (DLP), on which ECC
relies. In response to this quantum threat, researchers have
explored various approaches to secure elliptic curve groups in the
quantum era. This paper analyzes and optimizes quantum circuits  for computing discrete logarithms
on binary elliptic curves,  including reversible circuits
for fixed-base-point scalar multiplication  and the full stack of relevant subroutines.
The main optimization target  is the size of the quantum computer,
i.e., the number of logical qubits required,  as this appears to be the main obstacle to implementing
Shor's polynomial-time discrete-logarithm algorithm.  The secondary optimization target
is the number of logical Toffoli gates.
This comprehensive research paper is an in-depth exploration of the swiftly emerging cryptographic technique known as Elliptic Curve Cryptography . Our primary objective is to gain a profound understanding of Elliptic Curve Cryptography, shedding light on its myriad advantages, challenges encountered during implementation, and the diverse domains where it finds application. Furthermore, we aim to conduct a comparative analysis, pitting Elliptic Curve Cryptography against widely employed techniques such as Rivest, Shamir, Adleman , with the aim of ascertaining whether Elliptic Curve Cryptography can deliver superior encryption and decryption capabilities.
In 2016, Wang proposed a random linear code encryption scheme RLCE which is based on McEliece schemes. RLCE scheme can be constructed using any linear code such as Reed-Solomon code by inserting random columns in the underlying linear code generator matrix.
liboqs is an open source C library for quantum-resistant cryptographic algorithms. It initially focuses on key exchange algorithms but by now includes several signature schemes. It provides a common API suitable for post-quantum key exchange algorithms, and will collect together various implementations. liboqs will also include a test harness and benchmarking routines to compare performance of post-quantum implementations. Furthermore, OQS also provides integration of liboqs into OpenSSL.
On February 21, 2024, Apple announced that they were going to upgrade their iMessage protocol with a new PQC protocol called "PQ3", which will utilize ongoing keying.
Google has maintained the use of "hybrid encryption" in its use of post-quantum cryptography: whenever a relatively new post-quantum scheme is used, it is combined with a more proven, non-PQ scheme. This is to ensure that the data are not compromised even if the relatively new PQ algorithm turns out to be vulnerable to non-quantum attacks before Y2Q.
This work presents a hardware design for constant-time implementation of
the HQC (Hamming Quasi-Cyclic) code-based key encapsulation mechanism. HQC
has been selected for the fourth-round of NIST's Post-Quantum Cryptography standardization process and this work presents first, hand-optimized design of HQC key
generation, encapsulation, and decapsulation written in Verilog targeting implementation on FPGAs. The three modules further share a common SHAKE256 hash
module to reduce area overhead. All the hardware modules are parametrizable at
compile time so that designs for the different security levels can be easily generated.
The architecture of the hardware modules includes novel, dual clock domain design,
allowing the common SHAKE module to run at slower clock speed compared to the
rest of the design, while other faster modules run at their optimal clock rate. The
design currently outperforms the other hardware designs for HQC, and many of the
fourth-round Post-Quantum Cryptography standardization process, with one of the
best time-area products as well. For the combined HighSpeed design targeting lowest
security level, we show that the HQC design can perform key generation in 0.1 ms,
encapsulation in 0.14 ms, and decapsulation in 0.23 ms when synthesized for an Xilinx
Artix 7 FPGA. As this work shows, code-based algorithms can be competitive with
other schemes when optimized hardware is developed. The presented design will
further be made available under open-source license.
This work presents a hardware design for constant-time implementation of
the HQC (Hamming Quasi-Cyclic) code-based key encapsulation mechanism. HQC
has been selected for the fourth-round of NIST's Post-Quantum Cryptography standardization process and this work presents first, hand-optimized design of HQC key
generation, encapsulation, and decapsulation written in Verilog targeting implementation on FPGAs. The three modules further share a common SHAKE256 hash
module to reduce area overhead. All the hardware modules are parametrizable at
compile time so that designs for the different security levels can be easily generated.
The architecture of the hardware modules includes novel, dual clock domain design,
allowing the common SHAKE module to run at slower clock speed compared to the
rest of the design, while other faster modules run at their optimal clock rate. The
design currently outperforms the other hardware designs for HQC, and many of the
fourth-round Post-Quantum Cryptography standardization process, with one of the
best time-area products as well. For the combined HighSpeed design targeting lowest
security level, we show that the HQC design can perform key generation in 0.1 ms,
encapsulation in 0.14 ms, and decapsulation in 0.23 ms when synthesized for an Xilinx
Artix 7 FPGA. As this work shows, code-based algorithms can be competitive with
other schemes when optimized hardware is developed. The presented design will
further be made available under open-source license.
Secret key steganography usual uses a well-known public algorithm, and relies on a secret key chosen by the two parties communicating beforehand. This key is needed to both embed and extract the hidden information, and if the right key is not used, it cannot be known if data is actually hidden in a given cover object.
The cover image is divided into blocks and energy coefficient for each block is identified using IWT. The neural network is used to identify the best location in host image in order to embed the secret data. LSB embedding technique is used to embed the secret data into high energy locations of cover image. Inverse IWT is applied on stego image in order to negate the effects of IWT. Later stego image is brought back to original shape by using data re-arrangement process. During decryption the 2 shares of image are retrieved and inverse visual cryptography is applied and later message is extracted and decrypted.
The art of hiding information has been on for centuries and improvement and advancement have always accompanied information security to ensure the message gets to the intended recipient without compromise. Over the years, cryptography and steganography are the two major methods for securing, hiding and transmission of messages separately. The methods used information in order to cipher or cover their existence respectively. Cryptography is an art and science of hiding messages to introduce secrecy in data and/or information security while steganography is simply the art of secret writing, Crypto-steganographic method is aimed at amalgamating both the cryptography and steganography methods for a better information security. The primary purpose of this paper is to build up a new method of hiding secret text messages in an image, by combining cryptography and steganography. A new algorithm is proposed and implemented to achieve this. LSB method is used to hide the encrypted message into images while MSE and PSNR are used to acquire the quality of images.